ls,l. long list: list files with more detailed information while listing
ls,h. human readable: list files in a format easier for humans to read
ls,a. all: includes hidden files in list
lsblk,l. list: displays device in a list structure
lsblk,P. pairs: displays in a key value pair forma
md5sum,c. check: read MD5 sums from the File and checks them
uname,a. all: prints all information about system
mkdir,m. mode: sets file mode(as in chmod)
mkdir,v. verbose: prints a message for each created directory
touch,c. no create: do not create any files
chmod,v. verbose: output a diagnostic for every file processed
chmod,755. 755: gives owner all permissions and group and anyone read and execute(useful for scripts)
chmod,666. 666: gives owner group and anyone read and write permission
chmod,444. 444: gives owner group and anyone read permission
chmod,222. 222: gives owner group and anyone write permission
chmod,111. 111: gives owner group and anyone execute permission
chown,v. verbose: output a diagnostic for every file processed
apt,list.list: list all availble packages
apt,list --installed. list installed: list all installed packages
apt,list --upgradable. list upgradble: list all upgradable packages
apt,show.show: shows the package information for the given package
apt,install.install: installs the given package
apt,remove. remove: removes the given package
tar,c. create: creates a new archive
tar,A. catenate: append tar fles to an archive
tar,t. list: list the contents of an archive
tar,u. update: only append files newer than copy in archive
tar,a. auto compress: use archive suffix to determine the compression program
cat,n. number: number all output lines
cp,b. backup: makes backup of each existing destination file
cp,i. interactive: prompt before overwrite
mv,b. backup: makes backup of each file moving
mv,i. interactive: prompts before overwriting a file
mv,u. update: moves only when the source file is newer than the destination file or when the destination file is missing